A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
